---
title: FLOPS
layout: post
description: poker simulator
modified: '2019-04-02'
tags: [flops, poker, simulation]
image:
  feature: topper-flops-0.png
---

# FLOPS

*Future Language Obfuscates Past Sentences*

## Abstract

Before we can dive in to what is whom and all the other 'w' questions, we need to know a little bit more about what we're doing here. So let's get a little more abstract.

### Simple Use Case

A small embeddable widget that deals flops.

### Standard Use Case

*AKA, Default Use Case*

#### Deck

* 52 cards :: 4 suits / deck :: 13 values / suit

* Ways to represent cards
* A keyframe based PLAY, PAUSE, STOP, SLOW, 2x, ETC. controllable playback.

While the earliest versions of flops were implemented as system software in `C` (and intended to be merely a 'screensaver'), in order to cater to a broader audience with machines just a little better than those available in the 80's, as well as introduce multiple platforms, especially the mobile devices which have now become prevalent, we've switched to JavaScript - Not just any old JavaScript, but TypeScript, because meta win and @types!

As they usually do, a few topics have bloomed lately into deeper issues.

### Shuffling

Not quite as simple as it may first appear. Usually the easiest to come across and often rebuild with the wheel is the Fisher-Yates, or the Knuth shuffle algorithm, depending upon where your background influences lie.

**Knuth Fisher-Yates shuffle algorithm**

Before even touching on the topic of Random, Pseudorandom, or Cryptographically Secure random algorithms, the shuffling issue comes more and more important as more deals are recorded and studied.

Somehow, with the built-in random method, this shuffle algorithm was giving me quite horrible distribution across the 52 card slots in the standard poker deck.

The easiest way to start looking at the data was to track on card in particular in the deck and seeing where it landed from shuffle to shuffle, obviously over hundreds of thousands of shuffles. While this could be immediately expanded to track all 52 cards over all 52 slots, this step was not necessary to tell that something wasn't going quite right with the way the cards fell.

There seemed to be quite a few instances where the card in question fell towards the beginning of the deck, and very few where it made it to the end.

Somehow the first instinct would be to increase the number of shuffles, but as other developers have noted, this makes the deck no more random for any reason in particular.

However, instead of starting the method on the first index and proceeding to the last, I experimented with a random offset, and rolling over the end and back to the beginning, although still only processing the deck once.

This seemed to spread the distribution a bit, but there were still some obvious and definite patterns emerging.

By this time I was already outputting the results to csv files for easy import into the tools, so there were a few graphs to start looking at.

The data were compiled as offsets either positive or negative from the exact average values each slot would get until basically impossibly 'perfect' situations. It was also tempting to program a unit test to check for any deck other than the initial upon shuffling, but there would always be that edge case that could come up and bite out of nowhere.

* * [Shuffling - Coding Horror](https://blog.codinghorror.com/shuffling/)
* Random
* * [Random Numbers - Utah CS](https://www.cs.utah.edu/~germain/PPS/Topics/random_numbers.html)
* * [Hotbits - Fourmilab](https://www.fourmilab.ch/hotbits/)

<!-- <script async src="https://cdn.gigacalculator.com/embed.min.js"></script> -->

* Card Design
* * [Playing Cards Deck - Wikimedia](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Computer_screen_playing_cards_deck.svg)
* Keyframes
* Responsive Single Page Applications
* Full Stack Javascript
* * Express Server
* Hand Determination
* * [Bit Math Hand Analyzer - Codeproject](https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/569271/A-Poker-hand-analyzer-in-JavaScript-using-bit-math)