---
layout: post
title: npm
description: "npm reference"
author: polarysekt
modified: 2019-09-15
tags: [npm, node, nodejs]
---

# npm

## Introduction

Node Package Manager (npm) :: [https://www.npmjs.com/](https://www.npmjs.com/)

npm is the default package manager for `node` (or `nodejs`). 

Please refer to the article on [node](node) for more information about `node` itself.

In general, the `typescript` and or `express` packages will be referenced to illustrate a specific example, rather than providing example commands with placeholders that cannot be run as listed.

## Initialize npm

To initialize a `package.json`:

```sh
$ npm init
```

## Install a Package

NOTE: Packages are, by default, installed into the `node_modules` folder. As this is a generated folder, it is generally preferable to include this path in `.gitignore`. For more details, refer to the [git](git) article.

To add (and subsequently install) a package, such as `typescript`, use:

```sh
$ npm install typescript
```

This will fetch and install the typescript package and its dependencies, as well as record the package to `package.json`.

To install multiple packages, such as `typescript` and `express` they can be specified together on the command line:

```sh
$ npm install typescript express
```

A `package.json.lock` file will be created/updated with dependency-specific versioning information, unless the argument `--no-package-lock` is specified.

To ignore a `package.lock.json` and/or `npm-shrinkwrap.json`, the argument `--no-shrinkwrap` can be specified.

A package may also be installed by specifying a version:

```sh
$ npm install typescript@3.6.0
```

NOTE: This will install *at least* typescript version 3.6.0, but would install 3.6.3 if found. To explicitly specify an exact version, see the Exact Versioning section below.


### Exact Versioning

By default, `npm` will record a 'semver range operator'. To explicitly install and record an exact version of a package, use the `--save-exact` or `-E` argument.

This will also update `package.lock.json` and/or `npm-shrinkwrap.json`.


### Dependency recording in package.json

`package.json` has several sections for dependencies.

Here is a non-exhaustive list:

```json
  "dependencies": {
    ...
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    ...
  },
  "peerDependencies": {
    ...
  },
  "bundledDependencies": {
    ...
  },  
  "optionalDependencies": {
    ...
  }
```

NOTE: sometimes `bundledDependencies` is called `bundleDependencies`.

By default, `npm install` will record packages to `dependencies` in `package.json`.
This can also be specified explicitly with the `--save`, `--save-prod`, or `-P` argument.

Examples, for `typescript` dependency:

```sh
$ npm install typescript
```

or:

```sh
$ npm install --save typescript
```

or:

```sh
$ npm install --save-prod typescript
```

or:

```sh
$ npm install -P typescript
```

### devDependencies

To install a package, recording it into `devDependencies`, pass the `--save-dev` (or `-D`) argument to `npm install` on the command line:

```sh
$ npm install --save-dev typescript
```

or:

```sh
$ npm install -D typescript
```

Consequently, when `npm install` is invoked with the `--production` argument, `devDependencies` will not be installed (See below).

### peerDependencies

NOTE: npm does not specifically handle peerDependencies as of v3.

peerDependencies can be modified by manually editing the `package.json`.

Optionally, [yarn](yarn) can be used instead to manage peerDependencies.


### optionalDependencies

optionalDependencies are listed dependencies that will not cause install to fail if they cannot be found, fetched, or installed.

To install a dependency into `devDependencies`, pass the `--save-optional` (or `-O`) argument to `npm install` on the command line:

```sh
$ npm install --save-optional typescript
```

or:

```sh
$ npm install -O typescript
```

To install packages, ignoring `optionalDependencies`, use the `--no-optional` argument (See Below).

NOTE: The `--no-optional` argument is known to introduce bugs.

NOTE: The `typescript` package was used here for simple, illustrative purposes only. Generally `typescript` will not be a candidate for an optional package!

### bundledDependencies

In addition to the dependency flags listed above, packages can be recorded also into the `bundledDependencies` ( sometimes `bundleDependencies` ) section.

Bundled dependencies are generally used for packages or files that would not normally be available in the npm registry.

These may include custom modules, custom modified packages, or files that are not themselves a module.

To install a dependency into `bundledDependencies`, pass the `--save-bundle` (or `-B`) argument to `npm install` on the command line:

```sh
$ npm install --save-bundle typescript
```

or:

```sh
$ npm install -B typescript
```

To build a bundle from the dependencies listed in `bundleDependencies` (or `bundledDependencies`), use the `npm pack` command:

```sh
$ npm pack
```

This will use `bundleDependencies` if it exists if there is no `bundledDependencies` section. In general, `bundledDependencies` should be used.

### Without Recording

To install a package, such as `typescript` without recording it in `package.json`:

```sh
$ npm install --no-save typescript
```

### Dry Run

To observe the results of, without performing, an `npm install`, use the `--dry-run` argument:

```sh
$ npm install --dry-run
```

## Update a dependency

Dependencies can then be updated with `npm update`:

```sh
$ npm update typescript
```

## Install project dependencies

While dependencies are installed as they are 'added' to a project (see above), they are usually not included in (they are `.gitignored` from) a repository when cloning locally.

To install all dependencies, use:

```sh
$ npm install
```

If a `package.lock.json` and/or `npm-shrinkwrap.json` exists, they will be used to determine package version, with `npm-shrinkwrap.json` taking precedence when both exist.


To install dependencies omitting `devDependencies`, use the `--production` argument:

```sh
$ npm install --production
```

Additionally, this can be done by setting the `NODE_ENV` variable to `production`.

To ignore the `NODE_ENV` variable, the `--only={prod[uction]|dev[elopment]}` argument can be used.

Only production:

```sh
$ npm install --only=prod
```

or:

```sh
$ npm install --only=production
```

Only development:

```sh
$ npm install --only=dev
```

or:

```sh
$ npm install --only=development
```


To install dependencies omitting `optionalDependencies`, use the `--no-optional` argument:

```sh
$ npm install --no-optional
```

NOTE: this has been known to introduce bugs and issues!

## Force Install a Package

To force the installation of a package, such as `typescript`, even if it is already installed, use the `--force` or `-f` argument:

```sh
$ npm install --force typescript
```

or:

```sh
$ npm install -f typescript
```

This may be useful for resetting a package has been customized or broken, without having to uninstall/reinstall.

## Install a Package with Alias

Sometimes, more than one copy of the same package, albeit with different versioning, may be required by a project.

As of npm version 6.9.0, a package can be installed with an alias:

```sh
$ npm install typescript-3.6.3@npm:typescript@3.6.3
$ npm install typescript-3.6.2@npm:typescript@3.6.2
```

And the dependencies will appear as follows:

```sh
  "dependencies": {
    "typescript-3.6.3": "npm:typescript@3.6.3",
    "typescript-3.6.2": "npm:typescript@3.6.2"
  }
```

To install the current version of a package, the trailing version can be omitted:

```sh
$ npm install typescript-latest@npm:typescript
```

NOTE: a better example would involve a package with breaking API changes, most likely over a major version update!

## Uninstall a Package

To uninstall a package (without removing from `package.json`), such as `typescript`, use:

```sh
$ npm uninstall typescript
```

To uninstall *and remove* from `package.json`, use:

```sh
$ npm uninstall --save typescript
```

## Prune Packages

To remove modules not referenced by `package.json`:

```sh
$ npm prune
```