---
layout: post
title: Git Up
description: "Getting Started with git (puns avoided)"
modified: 2019-03-14
tags: [qu, git, upman]
image:
  feature: topper-2.png
---

`QU.OFFICIAL @ kb3c.uX::GHUPMAN::QU_GIT [PRIVATE]`

## **Getting Started**

### Foreward

This info is being cobbled together from various personal project README's and wikis.
It is the result of several years of trial and (more often) error. 
Updated and refined with best practices and optimizations as they emerge. 

Sometimes I do RTFM. (Haha, I've got jokes.)

#### Getting started

Prepare a landing zone.

In other words, get to a place where you have `rwx` (read,write,execute) permissions at user or group level.

See: POSIX permissions

The desktop is a good place for setting these checkouts. (Out of site out of mind can be a bad thing, i.e. lost)

With `git`, the 'out of sight (site)' \{cite\} should be trusted, and therefore properly pushing into the repository should alleviate the mind of worries.


In a command terminal shell, navigate your way to the desktop.


See: [bash basics](bash basics)



No matter what you choose, just make sure you keep track of it long enough to push that code!
You can always reclone a repository.

#### Clone the repository

To get started with an existing project, the repository must be `clone`d from the remote server.

Details of this process are often included on the server itself, if you're a fan of copy-paste commands.

On the project page, there should be a specific reference to the repository location.

If the repository is public, it generally won't require authentication to `clone`, but this would be necessary to `push`.

There are usually two different protocols for accessing repositories.

1. http/https

1. ssh

The first method is probably the first you'll encounter.

The second method, via ssh, is especially handy if you're using access tokens.
Sometimes a READONLY access token will be provided.


HTTP

```
https://publicrepo.com/organization/repository.git
```

NOTE: The `.git` extension can often be omitted from the URL.

```
https://publicrepo.com/organization/repository
```

Just for reference,

SSH

```
user@publicrepo:publicrepo.com/organization/repository.git
```

If the HTTP requires authentication, and you want to save a step on push, you can reference your username:

```
https://username@publicrepo.com/organization/repository
```

NOTE: you should never hard code a password, because the URL is stored in a plaintext file. This file is `.git/config`. .dotfiles are often hidden by default on systems,
they come into use frequently. The first you may encounter is a `.gitignore` file we'll address shortly.

Let's go ahead and `clone` the repository, keeping in mind a new sub-folder will be created in the `pwd` with the name of the repository.
If a folder with the same name already exists, the clone will fail. This is a good thing as it prevents accidentally clobbering existing data, which you'll have plenty of time to do during development.
You generally want to avoid arguments like `--force`, or even more scary, `-f`, which is not standard across the board. In some cases, `-f` may be a shorthand for `--file`, but in others, `--force`, and that's not something that's too fun to mix up.
A good general rule is to use the fullname arguments until later optimization after gaining a better familiarity with a command.

Anyways, `clone` the repository:

````
$ git clone https://publicrepo.com/organization/repository
````
While we'll address this later, it's important to mention `branching`, insofar as to be aware of the `branch` you're working on.
Often, the branch you'll want is the `default branch`, and certain branches will be `protected` from `push`ing, especially if they contain `stable` versions.

After the clone completes successfully, be sure to `cd` into the created folder.

At this point, it would be helpful to understand some of the basics.

`remote` refers to the server from which you just `clone`d, sometimes called `upstream`.

`local` is your copy, and can quickly get out of sync with `remote`.

The `$git status` command can provide information relating to the `clone` you made, but will not automatically check if changes were made to `remote`.
Your `local` copy can have `unstaged` changes as work is done to the local copy. We'll get deeper into it later, but once changes are `add`ed, they are considered `staged`.
`staged` changes can then be `commit`ted to the local working copy, at which point your local copy will be 1 step ahead of the original `clone`.

'$ git status` won't know about the current status of `remote` until you `$ git fetch` and `$ git pull`.
To avoid getting out of sync, it is wise to `$ git pull` prior to a work session, and `$ git push` upon completion.

In the event the `remote` changes, and your copy can not be easily synchronized, you can `$ git stash` your local changes, and `$ git unstash` at a later time.

Usually the hardest situations to resolve are non-exclusive edits to the same file, in which case you actually have to inspect the files and decide which changes to keep.

Luckily, as is the power of `git`, many actions can be rolled back or moved to a different state.

A good workflow will generally involve `branch`ing to avoid `local` problems, leaving `merge` resolutions to whoever accepts/rejects the `pull request`.

One helpful solution to this problem is to immediately `branch` the `clone` and naming it descriptively, or at least according to the repository guidelines.

```
$ git branch <branchname>
```
will create a new branch. In this case we can name the branch 'feature-newmenu' or 'fix-load-segfault', depending on the reason for the checkout.

Switching to another branch is done with the `$ git checkout` command. This may hide or in the worst case lose some changes if they haven't been committed or stashed.

Checking out the previous branch will bring them back.

## **TROUBLESHOOTING:**

As stated above, if the folder is already created, the git command will fail.

````
$ cd gchexnav/
````

You can:

* Verify local copy
** Change to the directory
** issue `$ git fetch && git status`
** optionally issue `$ git checkout <branchname>` to change to another branch. (Detailed Below)
*** If there are local changes, git will complain and then tell you what to do.

* Remove/Replace Local Copy
** Remove the entire folder and start over (possibly dangerous)




### Checkout a Current Branch

NOTE: disambiguate `checkout` from `clone`.

We're gonna go ahead and blast through this at first, hang tight, we'll return to it again later (again and
again and...).

Feel free to go back over any of these sections slowly, as they are updated continuously with more detail.

By default git will clone the master branch. The full command to clone and checkout in one step is detailed
in the qu_git manual.

The current branch (at the time of *this* writing) is presented at the top of *this* page.

The example documentation may lag behind somewhat, but the core concepts illustrated should remain
*similar*.

### Find Current branch

If you're reading this wiki, then you're probably in the project folder. Otherwise you're on the site, so
you should have a console open and ready in your project folder.

In the `NAVIGATION` panel to the left in gray there should be a branches option. 

TIP: You may want some of these pages open simultaneously in tabs. (Don't forget to `refresh` from 
time to time).

NOTE: You will not always be able to see all the branches from the command line!

````
$  git fetch
````

NOTE: I'm still looking into the process for retrieving all the branches other than visiting the
site itself and selecting the `branches` page from the toolbar.

#### Checkout Current Branch

Checkout the aforementioned aforepresented version listing above above.

For this example, we're using branch `0.0.2`.

In reality, it is probably unwise to checkout such a highlevel branch.

This will be protected in some way.

```
$ git checkout 0.0.2
```

The current branch is 0.0.2

Immediately after checking out the proper branch,
Create a local branch of that copy.

```
$ git branch 0.0.2-<REASON>
$ git checkout 0.0.2-<REASON>
```
Where `<REASON>` is descripvar of why you're changing.

Example
```
$ git branch 0.0.2-fa-mobility
$ git checkout 0.0.2-fa-mobility
``` 
Feature Add MOBILITY


When you create a local branch, it will not be connected to any branch on the remote server.


The branch on the remote server to which the local copy synchronizes is called the 'upstream' branch.


When pushing, use the `--set-upstream` argument:

```
$ git push --set-upstream origin <new_branch_name>
```

Where <new-branch-name> is the name of the branch you created locally. This should not yet exist on the remote server.


### TODO FORK the CURRENT CHECKOUT ###

We will soon be forking our data separately to test fork merging.

When you fork a branch, you are essentially creating another repository local to your user. You should place it directly under your user heading as it would only be visible/editable by you.

More testing (on my part) is required before this is implanted in the workflow.

However, when the forked branch is ready, create a pull request, and it can be merged in.

The results of this will decide workflow guidelines in the future.

### === Starting Out : GIT ###

There are several different branch variations within this documentation to know.

#### cd to your local checkouts ####

.Example
````
~/[co]/gumchewers/`
````

1. CLONE current branch 'dev':

NOTE: this is primarily an example. 
It is always important to get to know your git repository branches before cloning/checking out.

.$
````
git clone -b dev https://bitbucket.org/gumchewers/hexnav/`
````

This will create a sub-folder.

NOTE: We'll stick with one branch for the time being!

The deeper branching process is replaced by the forking process.

#### Verify status of local: ####

This checks where your locally cloned copy sits in regards to the current 
status of the branch. (up to date/ahead/behind)

This checks your currently staged changes (and what isn't staged).

This does not check the server to see if other users have modified the repository, see NEXT.

````
$ git status
````

#### Check the server for updates ####

````
$ git fetch 
````

#### Pull in any updates from server. ####

Warnings will ensue if local modifications exist.

##### REMEMBER: #####

  * local changes are STAGEd with `git add`
  * local changes are COMMITted with `git commit`
  * local COMMITS are pushed to remote with `git push`
  * local copy is sync'd with remote with `git pull`


#### VERIFY branch ####

````
$ git branch
````

To list branches.

NOTE: Will asterisk (*) the current


#### CHANGE branch ####

````
$ git checkout <branch name>
````


##### To change to a different branch: #####

NOTE: Your local copy will be clobbered!

  `git checkout <branchname>`

NOTE: if the branch was recently created on the site,
use `git fetch` to notify the local copy of the repo.

##### To create a new <child> branch under <parent>: #####

NOTE: It's often easier to create the branches with the web ui

  `git checkout -b <child> <parent>`

And Be sure <child> points to <parent> (upstream):

  `git branch -u origin/<parent> <child>`

  
#### VERIFY local copy is current ####

  `git pull`
### De-couple from the machine. Virtualize. Containerize.

The codebase should be portable, not locked into the particular details of one dev machine.

See: Docker / Python Virtual Environments
