---
layout: post
title: yarn
description: "Notes about yarn"
author: polarysekt
modified: 2019-09-15
tags: [yarn, node, nodejs]
---

# yarn

## Introduction

yarn :: [https://yarnpkg.com/](https://yarnpkg.com/)

yarn is an alternative package manager to [npm](npm) for `node` (or `nodejs`). 

Please refer to the article on [node](node) for more information about `node` itself.

## Initialize yarn

To initialize a `package.json`:

```sh
$ yarn init
```

## Add a project dependency

NOTE: dependencies are, by default, installed into the `node_modules` folder. As this is a generated folder, it is generally preferable to include this path in `.gitignore`. For more details, refer to the [git](git) article.

To add (and subsequently install) a dependency, such as `typecript`, use:

```sh
$ yarn add typescript
```

This will fetch and install the typescript dependency and its dependencies.

To install multiple dependencies, such as `typescript` and `express` they can be specified together on the command line:

```sh
$ yarn add typescript express
```

Added dependencies will be saved to `package.json`. Additionally, a `yarn.lock` file will be created/updated with dependency-specific versioning information.

A package may also be installed by specifying a version:

```sh
$ npm install typescript@3.6.0
```

NOTE: This will install *at least* typescript version 3.6.0, but would install 3.6.3 if found. To explicitly specify an exact version, see the Exact Versioning section below.

### Exact Versioning

By default, `yarn` will record a 'semver range operator'. To explicitly install and record an exact version of a package, use the `--exact` or `-E` argument.


### Dependency recording in package.json

`package.json` has several sections for dependencies.

Here is a non-exhaustive list:

```json
  "dependencies": {
    ...
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    ...
  },
  "peerDependencies": {
    ...
  },
  "bundledDependencies": {
    ...
  },  
  "optionalDependencies": {
    ...
  }
```

### devDependencies 

To add a dependency into `devDependencies`, such as `typescript`, pass the `--dev` argument to `yarn` on the command line:

```sh
$ yarn add --dev typescript
```

### peerDependencies 

To add a dependency into `peerDependencies`, such as `typescript`, pass the `--peer` argument to `yarn` on the command line:

```sh
$ yarn add --peer typescript
```

### optionalDependencies 

To add a dependency into `optionalDependencies`, such as `typescript`, pass the `--optional` argument to `yarn` on the command line:

```sh
$ yarn add --optional typescript
```

### bundledDependencies

Bundled dependencies are generally used for packages or files that would not normally be available in the npm registry.

These may include custom modules, custom modified packages, or files that are not themselves a module.

To bundle packages in the `bundledDependencies` section, use `yarn pack`:

```sh
$ yarn pack
```

## Add a Package with Alias

Sometimes, more than one copy of the same package, albeit with different versioning, may be required by a project.

A package can be installed with an alias:

```sh
$ yarn add typescript-3.6.3@npm:typescript@3.6.3
$ yarn add typescript-3.6.2@npm:typescript@3.6.2
```

And the dependencies will appear as follows:

```sh
  "dependencies": {
    "typescript-3.6.3": "npm:typescript@3.6.3",
    "typescript-3.6.2": "npm:typescript@3.6.2"
  }
```

To add the current version of a package, the trailing version can be omitted:

```sh
$ yarn add typescript-latest@npm:typescript
```

NOTE: a better example would involve a package with breaking API changes, most likely over a major version update!


## Update a dependency

Dependencies can then be updated with `yarn update`:

```sh
$ yarn update typescript
```

## Install project dependencies

While dependencies are installed as they are 'added' to a project (see above), they are usually not included in (they are `.gitignored` from) a repository when cloning locally.

To install dependencies, use:

```sh
$ yarn install
```

or simply:

```sh
$ yarn
```

NOTE: as an intended side-effect, this will also `prune` packages, removing those not listed in `package.json` (See also below).

## Remove a dependency

To remove a dependency, such as `typescript`, use:

```sh
$ yarn remove typescript
```

## Prune Dependencies

To remove modules not referenced by `package.json`, the `yarn install` or `yarn` command is used (as mentioned above):

```sh
$ yarn install
```
or:

```sh
$ yarn
```