---
layout: post
title: npm again
subtitle: or, return to npm
description: because you just can't get enough
author: polarysekt
modified: 2020-03-28
tags: [npm, node, nodejs]
---

# npm again

Here we are again.

## Say NO to sudo

While you may have grown accustomed to using `sudo` for your brief interactions with root when modifying system-wide packages, this needn't be done system-wide when installing node packages.
It CAN be done, however, as system-wide installation is the default, we will proceed with the per-user and per-folder settings.


`npm` will look for settings in the following order:

* per-folder './.npmrc'
* per-user '~/.npmrc'
* system-wide '/etc/npmrc'

Failing that, `npm` will use a system-dependent builtin

Also, the per-folder settings are only read if located in the current folder.

`npm` can also be configured through environment variables, `userconfig` and `globalconfig`, which can be set per-shell.

::TODO

System-wide installs will try to install to `/usr` or `/usr/local/` or `/var` inside a `/lib` or `/lib64` with a symlink in /bin so an issue with permissions arises.

npm cli packages are often easier to use if installed user-wide -
by setting the prefix to a user-accessible location, `npm -g` can be called without requiring elevation of privileges.

Generally dependency packages are installed for each project, although the size can add up rather quickly with several projects going. Instead of wiping the node_modules every time, you can use npm link.

When installed locally, npm links any binaries into the node_modules/.bin folder
